File Name: Thomas's Notes
Date Of Creation: 08/16/26
Created By: Thomas Addison
Purpose: To document my personal notes I have taken while working


___MONDAY___

I still having issues with n-dx and when I had Nala plug in an ELM she hit these

issues -> (but two things are still open before it's trustworthy: (1) resolving the

pre-existing undici-types trust-downgrade block so this can actually be

typechecked/tested, and (2) letting shadow mode accumulate enough real

agreement data before flipping ELM_GATE_ENABLED to true.)


___TUESDAY___


Issue 1 — the trust-downgrade block

    This is more interesting than a generic blocker: I checked pnpm-workspace.yaml

    and .npmrc, and the trust check is a deliberate policy already in the repo —

    minimumReleaseAgeStrict: true, minimumReleaseAge: 4320 (3 days), trustPolicy:

    no-downgrade. It's supply-chain hardening working as designed, correctly

    catching that undici-types@6.21.0 (a transitive dep pulled in by

    @types/node@22.19.8) has weaker trust evidence than an earlier-published

    version. Not a false alarm to just silence.

    But I also found the actual root cause, and it's bigger than this one package:

    package.json's "pnpm": { "overrides": {...} } block — 14 existing entries

    pinning picomatch, postcss, hono, ajv, vite, esbuild, rollup, and others — is

    being silently ignored. pnpm told us so directly in the install output: "The

    'pnpm' field in package.json is no longer read by pnpm." This pnpm version

    reads overrides from pnpm-workspace.yaml, not package.json. So the repo's

    entire override mechanism has been quietly inert, not just for undici-types —

    that's a pre-existing gap independent of my change, worth its own fix.
    

    My recommendation, in order:

        Migrate the 14 existing overrides from package.json into
        
        pnpm-workspace.yaml under an overrides: key — the real fix, restores pins
        
        that are currently doing nothing.
        
        Add a new undici-types override pinned to a version with valid trust
        
        evidence as part of that same move.
        
        Treat this as its own change, separate from the ELM work — it's an
        
        unrelated pre-existing issue that happens to be blocking verification of
        
        what I wrote, not something introduced by it.
        
        I'd want to confirm the specific version to pin undici-types to before

        landing it, rather than pick one blind — it's a security-relevant pin, and

        I'd rather verify than guess. Say the word and I'll do the migration +

        pick a version and show you before it lands.


Issue 2 — validating shadow mode before flipping the gate

    This is blocked on #1 (can't run ndx analyze at all right now), but the plan

    once unblocked:

        Run it across more than one codebase. n-dx already dogfoods itself

        (.sourcevision/ at root), and AsterMind-Community-Edition is now sitting

        right there as a second, structurally different real codebase. Validating

        against

        just one repo risks overfitting the confidence threshold to that repo's

        archetype mix.

        The shadow-mode log is currently just a console.log — it doesn't persist.t

        Right now agreement data is lost the moment the terminal closes, which

        makes "validate it over multiple runs" hard to actually do. I'd add a small

        append-only log — .sourcevision/elm-shadow-log.jsonl, one line per run — so

        agreement can be tracked and aggregated across runs and repos instead of

        eyeballed once.

        Log coverage alongside agreement. Right now only agreement

        (of the files ELM was confident about, how many matched the LLM) is logged.

        Coverage — what fraction of unclassified files ELM was even confident enough

        to call — matters just as much: high agreement on 2% of files isn't worth much.

        Set a numeric bar up front, not a vibe. I'd propose something concrete like:

        ≥50 compared predictions total, ≥90–95% agreement, across at least 2

        structurally different repos — before ELM_GATE_ENABLED flips. Otherwise

        "validate first" is a plan that never quite concludes.

        Stage the first live rollout conservatively. Even after validation clears that

        bar, I'd raise the margin threshold above shadow mode's 0.3 for the initial

        cutover (e.g. 0.5) — start stricter than what shadow mode was tested at, then

        relax it based on continued monitoring once it's actually skipping calls.

